.TH UNIDATA 1
.SH NAME
unidata \- Prints Unicode character information in a human-readable format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unidata
.I U+XXXX|char|terms…
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unidata
is a command-line interface for the Node.js/npm module of the same name. It lets you look up
information about Unicode characters in the Unicode character database given their U+XXXX code point
values or actual character and lets you search character names. Information about the character(s)
found is printed to standard output in a human-readable format.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IR U+XXXX
Unicode code point in hexadecimal of a single character to index.
.TP
.IR U+XXXX~YYYY
Range of Unicode code points in hexadecimal.
.TP
.IR char
A single character to lookup.
.TP
.IR terms…
Search terms which are used to select characters based on a partial match against their names.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.BR 0
Successfully found one or more matching characters.
.TP
.BR 1
No characters were found.
.TP
.BR 2
An error occurred loading the Unicode character database. Error details are printed to standard
error output.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows the output for the three different ways of specifying how to search:
.P
.BR unidata
.BR U+00B7
.IP
U+007B ({) LEFT CURLY BRACKET [Punctuation, Open «Ps»]
.P
.BR unidata
.BR {
.IP
U+007B ({) LEFT CURLY BRACKET [Punctuation, Open «Ps»]
.P
.BR unidata
.BR "\*[lq]left curly bracket\*[rq]"
.IP
.BD
U+007B ({) LEFT CURLY BRACKET [Punctuation, Open «Ps»]
U+23A7 (⎧) LEFT CURLY BRACKET UPPER HOOK [Symbol, Math «Sm»]
U+23A8 (⎨) LEFT CURLY BRACKET MIDDLE PIECE [Symbol, Math «Sm»]
U+23A9 (⎩) LEFT CURLY BRACKET LOWER HOOK [Symbol, Math «Sm»]
U+23B1 (⎱) UPPER RIGHT OR LOWER LEFT CURLY BRACKET SECTION [Symbol, Math «Sm»]
U+2774 (❴) MEDIUM LEFT CURLY BRACKET ORNAMENT [Punctuation, Open «Ps»]
U+FE37 (︷) PRESENTATION FORM FOR VERTICAL LEFT CURLY BRACKET [Punctuation, Open «Ps»]
U+FE5B (﹛) SMALL LEFT CURLY BRACKET [Punctuation, Open «Ps»]
U+FF5B (｛) FULLWIDTH LEFT CURLY BRACKET [Punctuation, Open «Ps»]
U+0E007B TAG LEFT CURLY BRACKET [Other, Format «Cf»]
.ED
.SH SEE ALSO
unichar,iconv
